Title: MaxLinear Joins the O-RAN ALLIANCE
Date: 2021-01-20
URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/news/press-releases/2021/maxlinear-joins-the-o-ran-alliance
Content:
– January 20, 2021 – 
 (NYSE: MXL), a leading provider of radio frequency (RF), analog, digital and mixed-signal integrated circuits, announced today that it has joined the O-RAN ALLIANCE, a worldwide community of mobile network operators and technology suppliers whose mission is to re-shape the Radio Access Network (RAN) industry towards more intelligent, open, virtualized and fully interoperable mobile networks.

 

Open RAN provides operators with a new opportunity to build their radio networks using interoperable network equipment sourced from different best-in-class infrastructure suppliers. High-performance, flexible, and cost-effective Radio Units (RUs) are key elements to every Open RAN network. MaxLinear's transceiver solutions provide a proven software-defined radio platform that enables equipment vendors to rapidly deliver Open RAN RUs that meet these goals with industry-leading features, flexibility, form factor, and power efficiency.

 

"Allowing broader participation through open architecture is a proven model in the technology sector,” said Brendan Walsh, Vice President of MaxLinear’s Wireless Infrastructure Group. “The O-RAN ALLIANCE is driving this innovation in mobile networks. We are excited to help realize this goal by contributing to the development of interoperable fronthaul interfaces and enabling the rapid deployment of next-generation O-RAN based 5G RUs using our industry-leading transceiver solutions and digital linearization technology.” 

 

 



MaxLinear, Inc. (NYSE: MXL) is a leading provider of radio frequency (RF), analog, digital and mixed-signal integrated circuits for the connectivity and access, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multimarket applications. MaxLinear is headquartered in Carlsbad, California. For more information, please visit www.maxlinear.com.

MxL and the MaxLinear logo are trademarks of MaxLinear, Inc. Other trademarks appearing herein are the property of their respective owners.

 



This press release contains “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, among others, statements concerning or implying future financial performance, anticipated product performance and functionality of our products or products incorporating our products, and industry trends and growth opportunities affecting MaxLinear, in particular statements relating to MaxLinear’s transceiver solutions and digital linearization technology, including but not limited to potential market opportunities, future collaborations with the O-RAN ALLIANCE, functionality, and the benefits of use of such products.  These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We cannot predict whether or to what extent these new or existing products will affect our future revenues or financial performance.  Forward-looking statements are based on management’s current, preliminary expectations and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as “will be,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “continue,” or similar expressions and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: intense competition in our industry and product markets; risks relating to the development, testing, and commercial introduction of new products and product functionalities; the ability of our customers to cancel or reduce orders; and uncertainties concerning how end user markets for our products will develop.  Other risks potentially affecting our business include risks relating to acquisition integration; our lack of long-term supply contracts and dependence on limited sources of supply; potential decreases in average selling prices for our products; impacts from public health crises such as the Covid-19 pandemic or natural disasters; and the potential for intellectual property litigation, which is prevalent in our industry. In addition to these risks and uncertainties, investors should review the risks and uncertainties contained in MaxLinear’s filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including risks and uncertainties arising from other factors affecting the business, operating results, and financial condition of MaxLinear, including those set forth in MaxLinear’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2020, in each case as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. MaxLinear is providing this information as of the date of this release and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

Images:
  - URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/MaxLinear/media/Images/News/MaxLinear-Blog-Image-1.jpg?ext=.jpg
    Filename: MaxLinear-Blog-Image-1.jpg
    Filepath: images\MaxLinear-Blog-Image-1.jpg
    Size: 275707 bytes
