Title: MaxLinear and Sumitomo Electric Device Innovations Announce Availability of FOTON: 400G-DR4 Reference Platform based on Keystone 5nm DSP
Date: 2022-03-03
URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/news/press-releases/2022/maxlinear-and-sumitomo-electric-device-innovations
Content:
– March 3, 2022 – Next week at OFC 2022, 
 (NASDAQ: MXL) and Sumitomo Electric Device Innovations, Inc. (SEDI) will showcase the first public demonstration of the FOTON 400G-DR4 QSFP-DD reference platform (visit us in Booth 1923). This platform incorporates the MaxLinear Keystone 5nm 400G DSP and SEDI’s latest 100G/lane EMLs (Electro-Absorption Modulated Lasers) and photodetectors (PD). FOTON provides best-in-class performance and power consumption and a proven path to production for optical transceiver manufacturers to follow.

 

Open systems, artificial intelligence, machine learning and cloud storage are contributing to the rapidly growing demand for large data centers with high-capacity connectivity. As this demand continues to increase, the need for products that support 400G network interconnects is also growing rapidly. OEM manufacturers are looking for solutions that provide a reliable and fast path to address this market.

 

"Market projections show the demand for 400G modules will exceed two million units this year, double in 2023 and continue to increase through 2026," said Drew Guckenberger, Vice President of Optical Interconnect at MaxLinear. "The FOTON 400G reference design provides a proven baseline that allows module partners to quickly ramp 400G products and access this major, growing data center market quickly and effectively."

 

By building this complete QSFP-DD solution, MaxLinear and SEDI are providing a reference platform with proven signal integrity, power integrity and performance to customers who want to develop 400G-DR4/FR4 modules. This baseline shortens the cycle time to a working design and quickens the path to production.

 

The MaxLinear Keystone family of 5nm PAM4 DSPs includes 400G and 800G variants with and without integrated drivers. The FOTON reference module uses the 400G DSP with integrated drivers to directly drive SEDI’s 100G EMLs, providing outstanding module level transmitter performance by using the large drive swing and transmit equalization capabilities of the Keystone DSP.

 

The FOTON reference design is immediately available for module designers, along with MaxLinear DSPs and SEDI EMLs and PDs.

 

For additional information on MaxLinear data center solutions and the Keystone DSP family, visit: 
.

 



MaxLinear, Inc. (NYSE: MXL) is a leading provider of radio frequency (RF), analog, digital and mixed-signal integrated circuits for the connectivity and access, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multimarket applications. MaxLinear is headquartered in Carlsbad, California. For more information, please visit www.maxlinear.com.



MxL and the MaxLinear logo are trademarks of MaxLinear, Inc. Other trademarks appearing herein are the property of their respective owners.





This press release contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, among others, statements concerning or implying future financial performance, anticipated product performance and functionality of our products or products incorporating our products, and industry trends and growth opportunities affecting MaxLinear, in particular statements relating to MaxLinear's Keystone family of 5mm PAM4 DSPs, including but not limited to anticipated benefits from collaboration with Sumitomo Electric Device Innovations, Inc. and integration in the FOTON 400G-DR-QSFP-DD reference platform, potential market opportunities, including market projections for 400G modules, functionality, and the potential benefits of use of such products. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We cannot predict whether or to what extent these new and existing products will affect our future revenues or financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current, preliminary expectations and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "will be," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "continue," or similar expressions and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: intense competition in our industry and product markets; risks relating to the development, testing, and commercial introduction of new products and product functionalities; the ability of our customers to cancel or reduce orders; uncertainties concerning how end user markets for our products will develop; our lack of long-term supply contracts and dependence on limited sources of supply; potential decreases in average selling prices for our products; impacts from public health crises, such as the Covid-19 pandemic, or natural disasters; and the potential for intellectual property litigation, which is prevalent in our industry. In addition to these risks and uncertainties, investors should review the risks and uncertainties contained in MaxLinear's filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including risks and uncertainties arising from other factors affecting the business, operating results, and financial condition of MaxLinear, including those set forth in MaxLinear's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as applicable. All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. MaxLinear is providing this information as of the date of this release and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

Images:
  - URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/MaxLinear/media/Images/News/maxlinear-and-sumitomo.jpg?ext=.jpg
    Filename: maxlinear-and-sumitomo.jpg
    Filepath: images\maxlinear-and-sumitomo.jpg
    Size: 178898 bytes
  - URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/MaxLinear/media/Images/News/maxlinear-and-sumitomo.jpg?ext=.jpg
    Filename: maxlinear-and-sumitomo.jpg
    Filepath: images\maxlinear-and-sumitomo.jpg
    Size: 178898 bytes
