Title: MaxLinear Partners with EdgeQ on Converged 4G and 5G Small Cell Platform
Date: 2023-02-27
URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/news/press-releases/2023/maxlinear-partners-with-edgeq-on-converged-4g-and
Content:
CARLSBAD, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- MaxLinear, Inc. (Nasdaq: MXL) today announced it has partnered with 
 on an all-in-one small cell reference design, converging 4G, 5G and compute onto a single software-defined platform. Combining EdgeQ’s 5G “Base Station-on-a-chip” with MaxLinear’s 
 RF transceiver and 
™ wideband digital predistortion (DPD) solution creates a new software-programmable paradigm that allows developers to scale rapidly and dynamically across the wide range of small cell applications and use cases with a high level of system integration, performance, and flexibility.
The EdgeQ and MaxLinear platform improves how feature-rich all-in-one small cell base stations can be developed faster and more efficiently. Future-proofed to address evolving 5G requirements of enterprise, cloud, and telco, both EdgeQ’s and MaxLinear’s products deliver high integration value with leading edge low power. The combined small cell platform is up to 50% more efficient than competitive solutions with scalable headroom to transition effortlessly from 4G to 5G.
“We are excited to partner with EdgeQ and look forward to enabling our customers together with this transformative new small cell development platform,” said Gerry Leavey, Senior Director of Wireless Infrastructure of MaxLinear. “There is a clear synergy between our two companies that allow us to deliver innovative Radio Access Network SoCs with higher integration and leading levels of customization and flexibility. Combining our complementary components will enable our shared customers to leapfrog their competition and accelerate the deployment of small cells publicly and privately.”
“The MaxLinear and EdgeQ solution represents a tectonic shift in how we have compacted and abstracted the friction out of 4G and 5G small cell base stations designs in a purely seamless and consumable manner,” said Edward Wu, Head of Marketing of EdgeQ. “Coupling MaxLinear’s high-performance, low-power RF chipset and class-leading DPD algorithms with EdgeQ’s enterprise-class, fully-programable platform is expected to drive the industry towards a singular, software-defined solution that can be dynamically adaptive [adapted?] to the rich, evolving needs of 5G applications.”
Bolstered by rising investments from industrialized nations in leading-edge 5G infrastructure and rapid global digitization, we believe small cell deployments are poised to skyrocket as network providers look to increase service reliability and robustness. According to Dell’Oro: “Small cell RAN revenue growth has been outpacing macros for some time now … with small cell RAN revenues growing more than 20 percent by 2027.”
 The small cell reference platform consists of the following technical components from EdgeQ and MaxLinear:
EdgeQ’s unique “Base Station-on-a-Chip” is a single-chip solution that integrates multi-node 4G and 5G baseband processing, Central Processing Unit (CPU), protocol accelerators, Network Processing Unit (NPU), and Artificial Intelligence (AI). Through software, the device is customizable at all radio PHY and networking layers, providing flexibility across fixed wireless, residential, private 5G, and outdoor gNB applications. The software defined 4G/5G base station architecture supports all O-RAN split options.
MaxLinear’s MxL1600 Quad-RF transceiver delivers the high system integration, wide bandwidth, highest performance, and broadest system flexibility on the market. While integrating four transmitters, four receivers and up to two feedback receivers in a single device and supporting wide signal bandwidths up to 400MHz, the MXL1600 has the lowest power consumption on the market – up to 50% lower than competitive offerings.
MaxLinear's 
 is the industry's leading open DPD linearization solution. Its advanced machine learning algorithms exceed the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) and Federal Communications Commission (FCC) unwanted emissions requirements with margin while delivering high PA efficiencies of >50%. Learn more about MaxLIN: 
MaxLinear, Inc. (NASDAQ: MXL) is a leading provider of radio frequency (RF), analog, digital and mixed-signal integrated circuits for access and connectivity, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multimarket applications. MaxLinear is headquartered in Carlsbad, California. For more information, please visit 
.
MxL and the MaxLinear logo are trademarks of MaxLinear, Inc. Other trademarks appearing herein are the property of their respective owners.
EdgeQ is a leading innovator in 5G systems-on-a-chip. The company is headquartered in Santa Clara, CA, with offices in San Diego, CA and Bangalore, India. Led by executives from Qualcomm, Intel, and Broadcom, EdgeQ is pioneering a converged connectivity and AI that is fully software-customizable and programmable. The company is backed by leading investors, including Threshold Partners, Fusion Fund and AME Cloud Ventures, among others. To learn more about EdgeQ, visit 
This press release contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, among others, statements concerning or implying future financial performance, anticipated product performance and functionality of our products or products incorporating our products, and industry trends and growth opportunities affecting MaxLinear, in particular statements relating to MaxLinear’s MxL1600RF transceiver and MaxLIN wideband digital predistortion solution including the capabilities of such technology, the potential of MaxLinear’s partnership with EdgeQ, including but not limited to, with respect to the anticipated market opportunity and potential revenue growth in the small cell RAN markets. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We cannot predict whether or to what extent these new and existing products will affect our future revenues or financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current, preliminary expectations and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as "will be," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "continue," or similar expressions and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: intense competition in our industry and product markets; the ability of the markets for our products to grow; risks relating to the development, testing, and commercial introduction of new products and product functionalities; the ability of our customers to cancel or reduce orders; our ability to successfully partner with EdgeQ, regulatory developments; uncertainties concerning how end user markets for our products will develop; our lack of long-term supply contracts and dependence on limited sources of supply; potential decreases in average selling prices for our products; impacts from public health crises, such as the Covid-19 pandemic, geopolitical conflicts, such as the military conflict in Ukraine and related sanctions against Russia and Belarus, or natural disasters; and the potential for intellectual property litigation, which is prevalent in our industry. In addition to these risks and uncertainties, investors should review the risks and uncertainties contained in MaxLinear's filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including risks and uncertainties arising from other factors affecting the business, operating results, and financial condition of MaxLinear, including those set forth in MaxLinear's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as applicable. All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. MaxLinear is providing this information as of the date of this release and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

Images:
  - URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/MaxLinear/media/Images/News/with-EdgeQ-Converged-4G-5G-Small-Cell.jpg?ext=.jpg
    Filename: with-EdgeQ-Converged-4G-5G-Small-Cell.jpg
    Filepath: images\with-EdgeQ-Converged-4G-5G-Small-Cell.jpg
    Size: 120254 bytes
  - URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/MaxLinear/media/Images/News/with-EdgeQ-Converged-4G-5G-Small-Cell.jpg?ext=.jpg
    Filename: with-EdgeQ-Converged-4G-5G-Small-Cell.jpg
    Filepath: images\with-EdgeQ-Converged-4G-5G-Small-Cell.jpg
    Size: 120254 bytes
