Title: MaxLinear and ColorChip Announce Collaboration on a Complete Line of Optical and Active Electrical Interconnect Solutions
Date: 2023-03-06
URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/news/press-releases/2023/maxlinear-and-colorchip-announce-collaboration-on
Content:
CARLSBAD, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- 
 (Nasdaq: MXL), a leading provider of high-speed interconnect ICs that enable next generation fiber-optic modules for data center, metro, and wireless transport networks, and 
, a leading supplier of optical transceivers, DACs, and active electrical cables, today announced the availability of a complete line of optical and electrical interconnect solutions for data center applications based on MaxLinear’s 5nm Keystone family of DSPs. 



By leveraging the high-performance, high-density, and industry leading power consumption of the Keystone 5nm IP, ColorChip believes it can offer customers a full line of 400G, 800G, and 1.6T solutions with best-in-class power consumption.
 
“MaxLinear’s innovative Keystone 5nm DSP has enabled us to build the industry’s lowest power 13W 800G-DR8 optical modules, which will be on display at OFC 2023, and their KGD bare die solutions have enabled us to implement the highest density 1.6T OSFP-XD AECs on the market,” said Xin Wu, EVP at ColorChip. “We are now leveraging these capabilities to enable a broad range of optical and electrical interconnect solutions for our customers with best-in-class power consumption and performance.”
“ColorChip has been a strong partner for MaxLinear, quickly building best-in-class solutions for our mutual customers,” said Drew Guckenberger, Vice President of High Speed Interconnect at MaxLinear. “Their broad range of manufacturing capabilities and technologies for both optical modules and electrical cable assembly make them an ideal partner for MaxLinear and our end customers, delivering a complete set of solutions for all interconnect needs.”
Visit MaxLinear at OCF 2023 from March 7-9 at booth 2207 to learn more about these innovative, best-in-class solutions.
The Keystone 5nm DSP family has been designed to address both 400G and 800G applications. Variants supporting single mode optics (EML and SiPh), multimode optics (VCSEL transceivers and AOCs), and Active Electrical Cables (AECs) are all available and can be paired with companion TIAs to provide complete solutions for our customers.
These DSPs offer exceptional performance and signal integrity in a compact (12mm x 13mm) footprint suitable for next generation optical module form-factors such as QSFP-DD800 and OSFP800 and are also offered as Known Good Die (KGD) for higher density applications, such as OSFP-XD.
MaxLinear, Inc. (Nasdaq: MXL) is a leading provider of radio frequency (RF), analog, digital and mixed-signal integrated circuits for the connectivity and access, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multimarket applications. MaxLinear is headquartered in Carlsbad, California. For more information, please visit 
.
MxL and the MaxLinear logo are trademarks of MaxLinear, Inc. Other trademarks appearing herein are the property of their respective owners.
ColorChip is a technology innovator, designer and manufacturer in the fields of photonic integrated circuits based on its proprietary PLC waveguide technology. The company is delivering an array of advanced optical sub-systems spanning from the infrared regime, used in high speed connectivity solutions for mega data centers, in addition to the visual regime used in the fields of AR/MR, Automotive and Medical industries.
This press release contains “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, among others, statements concerning or implying future financial performance, anticipated product performance and functionality of our products or products incorporating our products, and industry trends and growth opportunities affecting MaxLinear, in particular statements relating to MaxLinear’s 5nm Keystone family of DSPs, including but not limited to potential market opportunities, collaboration with ColorChip, Inc., functionality, integration and the benefits of use of such products. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We cannot predict whether or to what extent these new or existing products will affect our future revenues or financial performance. Forward-looking statements are based on management’s current, preliminary expectations and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as “will be,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “continue,” or similar expressions and include the assumptions that underlie such statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, including risks relating to the development, testing, and commercial introduction of new products and product functionalities; uncertainties concerning how end user markets for our products will develop; risks relating to our partnerships with ColorChip and others, risks relating to our proposed merger with Silicon Motion and the risks related to increased indebtedness; the effect of intense and increasing competition; impacts of a global economic downturn and high inflation; our ability to obtain government authorization to export certain of our products or technology; the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations; increased tariffs or imposition of other trade barriers; risks related to international geopolitical conflicts; risks related to the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from major customers; a decrease in the average selling prices of our products; failure to penetrate new applications and markets; development delays and consolidation trends in our industry; inability to make substantial research and development investments; a significant variance in our operating results or rates of growth; claims of intellectual property infringement; our ability to protect our intellectual property; and a failure to manage our relationships with, or negative impacts from, third parties. In addition to these risks and uncertainties, investors should review the risks and uncertainties contained in MaxLinear's filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including risks and uncertainties arising from other factors affecting the business, operating results, and financial condition of MaxLinear, including those set forth in MaxLinear's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as applicable. All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. MaxLinear is providing this information as of the date of this release and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

Images:
  - URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/MaxLinear/media/Images/News/Colorchip-Collaboration-Optical-Active-Electrical-Interconnect.jpg?ext=.jpg
    Filename: Colorchip-Collaboration-Optical-Active-Electrical-Interconnect.jpg
    Filepath: images\Colorchip-Collaboration-Optical-Active-Electrical-Interconnect.jpg
    Size: 159732 bytes
  - URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/MaxLinear/media/Images/News/Colorchip-Collaboration-Optical-Active-Electrical-Interconnect.jpg?ext=.jpg
    Filename: Colorchip-Collaboration-Optical-Active-Electrical-Interconnect.jpg
    Filepath: images\Colorchip-Collaboration-Optical-Active-Electrical-Interconnect.jpg
    Size: 159732 bytes
