Title: MaxLinear’s Puma™ 8 DOCSIS® 4.0 ESD/FDD Achieves Greater than 10Gbps Throughput, Offering Cable Service Providers Maximum Network Upgrade Flexibility
Date: 2024-01-04
URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/news/press-releases/2024/maxlinear%E2%80%99s-puma%E2%84%A2-8-docsis%C2%AE-4-0-esd-fdd-achieves-greater-than-10gbps-throughput,-offering-cable-serv
Content:
CARLSBAD, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- MaxLinear, Inc. (Nasdaq: MXL) today announced that Puma 8, its ESD/FDD DOCSIS 4.0 cable modem and gateway platform, delivers greater than 10Gbps data throughput speeds as an Ultra DOCSIS 3.1 solution. With speeds close to PON fiber, Multi Service Operators (MSOs) now have a DOCSIS upgrade solution that requires minimal capital expenditure to achieve 10Gbps service over cable versus the cost of a full-scale DOCSIS 4.0 infrastructure overhaul. For service providers who want to upgrade to DOCSIS 4.0 immediately, Puma 8 can be coupled with MaxLinear’s single-chip, low-power DOCSIS 4.0 Ultra High Split (UHS) Upstream Programmable Gain Amplifier (PGA) that together can achieve upstream speeds of up to 7Gbps based on 6 x OFDMA channels in the 108MHz to 684MHz band and 1 x OFDMA channel on the legacy 5MHz to 85MHz band.
Designed to handle next-generation applications requiring ever more data speeds - such as gaming, digital health, and 8k streaming – the Puma 8 single-chip DOCSIS 4.0 solution meets the needs of MSOs who continually grapple with the decision of when and how best to upgrade broadband service for their customers. As MSOs balance customer expectations of faster and more reliable service versus revenue growth and operational efficiency, Puma 8 offers an extremely cost-effective solution of a seamless upgrade path to Ultra DOCSIS 3.1 and DOCSIS 4.0. As more costly broadband PON technologies become standard for some networks, Puma 8 provides MSOs with the financial flexibility to scale their cable-based versus PON-based data services strategically.
"MaxLinear’s new Puma 8 platform marks a significant leap forward in DOCSIS 4.0 technology," said Will Torgerson, VP/GM Broadband Group. "Our platform is designed for exceptional performance and energy efficiency, achieving over 10Gbps data speeds that rival fiber. This positions our MSO partners to deliver ultra-fast broadband with smart capital expenditure, elevating the home connectivity experience for consumers today and into the future."
Puma 8 presents significant cost advantage to MSOs, who are aiming to immediately provide customers with 10Gbps service via an Ultra DOCSIS 3.1 solution, with a cost-effective upgrade pathway to DOCSIS 4.0 in the future. By leveraging Puma 8 as an incremental upgrade to Ultra DOCSIS 3.1 within their existing traditional Hybrid Fiber-Coaxial (HFC) network, operators can significantly enhance their network data-speed performance without incurring the substantial costs associated with full-scale infrastructure overhauls required for full-duplex DOCSIS 4.0. This cost-efficient approach allows MSOs to tap into the benefits of advanced DOCSIS 4.0 technology, achieving enhanced data speeds and network capabilities, while strategically managing capital expenditure. This CAPEX control provides yet another layer of flexibility, minimizing and/or deferring the need for costly extensive network infrastructure modifications while navigating the evolving, multi-faceted landscape of providing high-speed broadband data services.
In addition to being optimized for cost, the Puma 8 platform is built for optimal performance. MaxLinear’s single-chip low-power DOCSIS 4.0 Ultra High Split (UHS) Upstream Programmable Gain Amplifier (PGA) was developed specifically to work and interface seamlessly with Puma 8, providing an unmatched end-to-end solution. Its low-power design, with minimal external discrete passive components, contributes to energy efficiency, small board footprint and reduced operational costs for OEMs and operators.
The DOCSIS 4.0 UHS PGA's ultra-high split upstream capability is pivotal for optimizing network performance as it enables a more efficient allocation of upstream frequency spectrum, facilitating increased upstream data capacity. This results in improved network responsiveness, reduced latency, and enhanced overall user experience, critical factors in meeting the growing demand for high-speed, low-latency connectivity.
Furthermore, the frequency tunable bandwidth of the PGA provides flexibility for network operators to adapt and optimize performance according to specific network bandwidth requirements. This adaptability ensures scalability and future-proofing, allowing operators to evolve and grow their network capacity in tandem with technological advancements without requiring extensive modem or gateway replacements.
MaxLinear's innovative Puma 8 based DOCSIS4.0 modem and gateway platforms, including its ultra-high split PGA, form the backbone MaxLinear’s optimized DOCSIS 4.0 broadband home access and connectivity ecosystem.
MaxLinear Puma 8 and PGA demos will be shown at CES 2024 in Las Vegas.

Images:
  - URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/getmedia/8b7cfff1-def8-41c7-a472-201357a233ce/Puma-8-GreaterThan_PR-Linkedin-1.jpg?width=800&height=456&ext=.jpg
    Filename: Puma-8-GreaterThan_PR-Linkedin-1.jpg
    Filepath: images\Puma-8-GreaterThan_PR-Linkedin-1.jpg
    Size: 65453 bytes
  - URL: https://www.maxlinear.com/getmedia/8b7cfff1-def8-41c7-a472-201357a233ce/Puma-8-GreaterThan_PR-Linkedin-1.jpg?width=800&height=456&ext=.jpg
    Filename: Puma-8-GreaterThan_PR-Linkedin-1.jpg
    Filepath: images\Puma-8-GreaterThan_PR-Linkedin-1.jpg
    Size: 65453 bytes
